essentially in the last couple of years
since am mua mua we've discovered these
seven objects within the solar system
why wouldn't you have a conundrum for an
object that has never been detected
before yes a class of object that we've
never seen yes why wouldn't it be filled
with things that that don't make sense
that don't make sense maybe there are
just these other objects in the solar
system that are doing the same thing
it's just we had never noticed them
before because how do you detect comets
you see their commentary Tales hence
dark Comet yes
get
[Music]
it this is Star Talk Neil degrass Tyson
here your personal astrophysicist got
Chuck nice with me Chuck what's up Neil
all right man I hear you're working on a
on a standup special yes we are trying
to sell it right now so if you're it's
all done it's done if you're at Amazon
or Netflix hi
okay well good luck with that yeah
thanks good luck with that so you know
we're going to talk about today what's
that dark comets
oo sounds like a
Marvel movie I'm dark Comet dark Comet
dark Comet I've seen the term and I
don't know how they all Define it okay
cuz my specialty is like galaxies and
cosmology and like what going on in the
Solar it's too small for you comets yeah
we can't be bothered with comets can we
dark com we of the world's experts on
this subject Daryl Seligman Daryl
welcome to Star Talk hey thank you for
having me yeah so you you are an
assistant professor at Michigan State
University yeah well starting next year
I'll be an assistant professor right now
I'm an NSF fellow oh that that's between
your PhD and your first uh 10e track job
yes exactly so he's brand new wow look
at that just Birth by the National
Science Foundation birth look at that
all so the National Science Foundation
has what's called a post-doctoral
fellowship where once you get your PhD
okay uh it's money you just do whatever
the hell you want and it's like Freedom
that wouldn't otherwise be there if you
immediately went right into Academia so
Dar what was the title of your thesis if
you can remember it because I barely
remember the title of my thesis because
there's a lot of words and a subtitle
and but it's about comments well it was
actually about Interstellar objects
Interstellar objects okay well let's
start there for the the longest while we
presumed there was stuff flying between
the Stars that's right but nobody ever
saw one because occasionally you'd
expect them to pay us a visit or yeah or
at least pass through pass through
that's what I mean could just come in
and go out and we've been looking for
centuries yeah and your main topic of
study is something that doesn't exist
yet oh Well no I was pretty lucky
because so when I was a third year
graduate student I was doing just pure
fluid dynamics for astrophysics and then
as a third-year graduate student amua
mua was discovered so just to be clear
so a fluid to an astrophysicist is a
what a gas a gas exactly okay so so
liquids and gases are both fluids to to
a physicist right right okay so then why
does a mua mua have anything to do with
fluid dynamics well it doesn't have too
much to do with fluid dynamics to be
honest but it was such an exciting
opportunity
that we just kind of dropped everything
else we were yes we dropped everything
else we were doing and we're started
working on that so I don't know how
closely you were following back in 2017
but it was one of the most exciting
times for astronomy because basically
this thing got discovered and it was
also moving super fast so it was only
observable for a couple of weeks from
groundbased telescopes and then upwards
of three or four weeks would you expect
it to be moving fast if it's coming in
from Interstellar space yes you would
expect it to be moving fast and why why
would it be faster than anything else so
because the planets are all moving in
the same direction around the Sun amua
comes in and it's coming from a totally
different direction and then it looks
like it's moving really fast compared to
our motion because we're going in
opposite directions to each other okay
got it got it so uh mua mua we found
this thing yes called it a mu which
sounds Hawaiian it does I think it's was
it discovered by a telescope in Hawaii
so it was picked up by pan Stars which
is a telescope in Hawaii that is funded
by the Department of Defense and they're
looking for near Earth objects okay so
small kilometer scale objects that some
of which K scale small will knock you on
your
ass exactly so some of those objects are
potentially hazardous so we it's very
important that we find them with ample
time to do something if uh if they're
going to hit us exactly time to kiss
your ass
good you need enough time to get that
out of the way so it seems to me from
what you say pan Stars had no
expectation of finding Interstellar
objects but it has the ability to do so
regardless is that a fair statement well
that that is true but I think they
originally designed pan Stars hoping to
find Interstellar objects because for
the last couple of decades I mean we
know the solar system has ejected a good
amount of material in in interstellar
objects so it's not much of a stretch to
imagine that other planetary systems
would also be ejecting material and we
would see them and the only difference
is you just see a small body but it
comes across the night sky and looks
hyperbolic but the fact that we hadn't
seen any we were trying to put limits on
the number of them in the Galaxy based
on not seeing any but the Hope was that
pan Stars would find one right so if you
don't see any for a certain amount of
time you can say there can't be more
than this number otherwise we would have
seen it statistically yes exactly now
you said it was hyperbolic tell me what
you mean there cuz some people are
hyperbolic know I mean a different sense
of the word hyperbolic yes oh so it's
the flavor flave of comics of comics
just we knew we knew it was hyperbolic
because it was like Yeah
Boy so it came into the solar system and
left and it's never coming back because
hyperbolic means that its orbit is not
bound to the sun got it so all everybody
else has an orbit that is bound to the
sun that's right so either be like a
circle or an ellipse yes right exactly
so these comments that we see every once
in a while like a haly right so that's
bound to the sun that's why we see them
every once in a while cuz they're going
around and coming back that's exactly H
comet is like 1776 years so you only
seen that once why you got to do that to
my life I ain't living to 152 on cut a
brother a break
you will not be 152 years old I know I
have hypertension but
damn just saying yeah so hyperbolic so
that would be the best evidence that it
was not a member of the solar system
because Comics are coming from out far
away all the time that's right so why
isn't it just an asteroid why do you
know it's a comet so there is kind of a
Continuum between comets and asteroids
uh oh so now we okay so now we get into
word
issues word
definitions yeah so the things that
formed at large distances from the Sun
they have ice in them which hasn't
evaporated away exactly over the years
eons yeah exactly so when that a comet
gets close to the Sun the ice will heat
up and sublimate producing a dust tail
and that produces a Bright Beautiful
commentary tale he can't say evaporate
yeah can't right itates got use the real
word of course yes to regular fol it's
just it's evaporating yeah exactly but
no sublimates remind us what sublimate
means so that is when the ice in a well
not just in a comet but when ice
transitions straight to the gas form
straight straight away without melting
in between yeah so what they call dry
ice oh okay that just smokes away that
right you've never seen liquid dry ice
have you no you haven't right it goes
right to the and Now ladies and
gentlemen coming to the stage it goes
right straight from the ice to the Smoke
to the
Smoke yeah in fact if you have a ice
tray in your freezer okay you long
vacation and come back the ice cubes are
little yeah have you ever to check this
out I have seen that yeah you see them
they shrink up inside the actual TR yeah
they actually sublimating oh okay so so
so keep going I interrupted you we're
distinguishing between com on the
Continuum of asteroids and comets go
right we expected that the interstellar
objects that get ejected from other
planetary systems that they most likely
would have formed at large distances and
then had a lot of ice in them so we'd
expect them to be comets is that because
if they form at a large distance they're
not strongly held by the gravity of
their host star yeah so they can be
knocked off that's exactly right okay
and if they form at far distances then
they haven't been close enough to their
host stars for the yeah so you get a
double Force going there so may I ask if
if they're forming at such large
distances from their host star what
happens to get them to be kicked out so
that they're now slingshot it out into
hey I'm on see you I'm on my way yeah no
that's a great question so and it's a
good question because we also don't know
the
answer so stop asking a guest questions
he can't answer chck but the most likely
thing is you basically have something
like a deep space maneuver for a
spacecraft where you slingshot off of a
planet but you have that with something
as big as Jupiter I mean their version
of a Jupiter yeah their version of a
Jupiter so something with Jupiter's mass
at around five astronomical units then
if you get if a small body gets close to
that planet it could get slungshot out
so Jupiter is like a proxy Sun or a
Jupiter type it acts like like it would
be the Sun Well it messes with the oh it
it messes with the orbits things that
it's more yeah it's more like when you
get close to Jupiter you start feeling
its gravitational influence much more
than the Sun and then that will change
your or gotcha okay now I get it I get
it I get it Jupiter intervenes
intervenes right so but also presumably
given enough time this this other star
system may get tugged on by other stars
that happen to wander Too Close yes
that's exactly right yeah that it also
can happen Okay so again why are you
thinking this was a comet instead of an
asteroid so am mua mua in every way we
expected acted the exact opposite so the
biggest thing was it had no cometary
tail whatsoever so then why call it a
comet at all well then it was initially
called a comet because they uh made a
mistake actually the minor planet center
then they changed it to say that it was
an asteroid because it looked inactive
which means that it doesn't look like a
comet because it doesn't look like it
has a tail doesn't reveal FL that's
exactly right but then we realized as we
were trying to get follow-up
observations with the Hubble Space
Telescope and the Spitzer Space
Telescope that the object had a
non-gravitational acceleration so
Spitzer is specializes in infrared if I
remember correctly ex good good so you
want to you want to combine different
tools the toolkit of the observational
astronomer to see it in as many ways as
you can okay and Spitzer is really great
like looking in the infed is really
great for Comet science for some of the
same reasons you use it for things like
exoplanets but because you can see
typical cometary gases like CO2 and Co
that you wouldn't be able to see from
the ground so Spitzer named for Lyman
Spitzer oh okay's a former chair of the
astrophysics group at Princeton
University ah and I have one of his
books on my show I was going to say you
sound like you know him
way so I keep interrupting you it's okay
keep going go essentially it had this
non-gravitational acceleration but no
apparent dust coma and then an important
point is that these non-gravitational
accelerations we see them on so first of
all what that means is that the object
you look over time at its position in
the sky and then you figure out its
orbit and then you realize that its
orbit could not be explained just from
the sun's gravitational influence so
there must be an additional Force acting
on it and we measure that what you mean
by non-gravitational that's what I mean
by non-gravitational so we measure that
in comets all of the time MH so there
are many comets with non-ra and I might
even slip up and just call them non
gravs but these non graphs have been
measured and that's happening because as
that ice sublimates it produces like a
rocket type recoil effect okay so every
jet little bitty Jetty thing that comes
off it's a force operating on its
trajectory yes that's exactly right so
that alone is Not Unusual or uncommon
that alone is not uncommon that's didn't
have any fuzz that's right exactly and
you want there to be fuzz if you're
going to be non-gravitational that's
right so you're in a conundrum yes and
there is another kind of important point
which is that you will also see
asteroids accelerating non-g
gravitationally it's just that their
non-gravitational
accelerations for example they can be
caused by solar pressure radiation
pressure they're much much weaker so a
mu mu is non-gravitational acceleration
the weird thing is not that it had one
it's that it had one with no dust coma
but it was much stronger than those that
could be operating on asteroid so cuz I
think asteroids many of them are very
dark so that they would absorb sunlight
yes and that if you was you're absorbing
momentum of photons so it's like a solar
Cil at that point oh yeah well
theem but in either case the the light
pressure is acting on the great okay so
it's a nice conundrum and by the way I'm
a big reader of the history of science
yeah why wouldn't you have a conundrum
for an object that has never been
detected before yes a class of object
that we've never seen yes why wouldn't
it be filled with things that that don't
make sense that don't make sense well it
basically made me think like I am really
grateful for am mu mua because I feel
like am mua mua if you look back for the
last couple decades it was the most
intensely studied small body over a very
short period of time so there were
something like 700 and something
observations over the span of a couple
weeks just of this one object that's
evidence of how unusual it was right but
because of that and because we then had
to point Spitzer and Hubble at it we
then had to get the trajectory really
really accurate and then we noticed this
non-gravitational acceleration so it
made me think maybe there are just these
other objects in the solar system that
are doing the same thing it's just we
had never noticed them before because
how do you detect comets you see their
cometary Tales right you don't see the
non-gravitational accelerations which
are actually dark Comet yes I get it
there we go mhm okay is there a
consensus cuz we're now eight years into
it right so you should you should know
something by now so I would say that
well I would like to say that me and
Jenny Bergner's recent theory about am
mua mua is the consensus but
unfortunately there are a lot of
theories Einstein had a theory we had a
hypothesis we had a hypothesis so say
that
again Neil gets very touching about his
theories and
hypothesis okay fair enough I respect
you in my office here at the hate
planetar Museum of Natural History
you're going to say it right you're let
me you're in very good company by the
way of people who was like no you have a
hypothesis okay go ahead so Jenny
bergner and I have this recent
hypothesis this is a a collaborator a
collaborator of mine who's a professor
at Berkeley MH essentially a mua mua was
similar to a dark Comet that it was the
acceleration was driven by the
outgassing of volatile like ice like
material but it just had very little
dust cone and that's why we didn't see
the dust coma for what okay so that
would explain it yes that would explain
a little bit after the fact it' be
better if you had predicted that such a
thing would exist right but now you're
just forced to sort of clude an answer
which sounds plausible yeah but have
others followed behind it so there's a
lot of argument about what the type of
volatile that was driving it explain to
people what volatile is because any
normal person thinks if something's
volatile it means it'll burst into right
right so geologists have a whole
separate usage of the term so catch us
up on that yeah it just is about what
type of ice could be driving the
acceleration so just a volatile thing a
volatile thing is something that has ice
in it oh only that I thought it just
when I say volatiles I just mean ice
basically because when you put them in
space they will sublimate okay so I
thought anything that can turn to gas is
volatile is that not true that is
technically true is water in space
volatile yes but so water in its ice
phase is what I mean by volatiles okay
and you wouldn't find a swimming pool of
liquid water out there anyway got it
okay so in practice it all starts as ice
it's ice it's ice that can sublimate
these are your volatiles ice of any kind
not just water ice but like ammonia ice
I guess give me some more CO2 ice CO2
dry water ice nitrogen nitrogen ice okay
yeah so they have that on Pluto so there
is nitrogen ice on Pluto so to back it
up essentially in the solar system
comets they the primary driver of
activity the the main thing you see is
water ice and then you also see CO2 and
Co which is carbon dioxide and carbon
monoxide so those are the typical ones
but with a mua mua Spitzer the reason
they looked at that is you would
identify CO2 and Co because that those
have spectral signatures in the infrared
with spit are especially capable of
detecting in ways that Hubble would not
be able to that's right so another issue
is that without getting too much in the
details essentially water could not be
providing the acceleration because there
was not enough energy from the Sun to
sublimate the water yeah that's right
sublimate enough water to provide enough
push to get the acceleration but a much
better accelerant is hydrogen so our
hypothesis not
theory he thought about it he was like
so I'm GNA say it cuz I'm
here okay the hypothesis is that there
was water in water in a mua mua but then
as it travels through the interstellar
medium it's exposed to these very high
energy particles called cosmic rays and
that will break down some water and trap
hydrogen in there and then as the ice
heats up as a mua mua comes through the
solar system it will just gently release
this trapped hydrogen which has a
greater
impulse to accelerate the object then
that's right than just evaporating water
would that's right so it's both the fact
that hydrogen is a lot lighter than
water but also it takes much less energy
to sublimate hydrogen than water wow
okay so all right but you said there's
nearly a thousand papers on this object
and you're saying but you and your
colleague have this hypothesis right are
you lone wolves out there no no no so
essentially it comes down to can you can
a hypothesis explain all of these
mysterious properties another thing is
you could have the acceleration driven
by radiation pressure it's just for that
to work it would have to be ultra thin
or ultra low density so Amaya MOA Martin
at Space Telescope has this idea that it
was an ultra low density fractal
aggregate which basically means it's a
very large snowflake so it's large but
with very low density that's right right
so there's a lot of so you can push it
that's right you can push it yeah yeah
that's right so the solar photons which
very subtly push asteroids could
suddenly push push this a lot like right
a lot harder because it's not doesn't
have a orbital companion there's no way
you can know the mass of this thing you
have to make assumptions about it so yes
that's totally right yes that is a
detail that I intentionally swept under
the rug but yes no this rug here is
clean all right so is that is that the
betting person's explanation the way to
test this was is there another one of
these objects and I seem to remember
there was yeah there so there was
another one another Interstellar object
but this this was two I borisov so that
was detected in 2019 and that was very
clearly a comet so that had a big dust
tail okay but the exciting thing is that
the r ruin Observatory and lsst which
I'll probably refer to it as is coming
online just next year far ruin another
astrophysicist died a few years back she
uh discovered dark matter in galaxies
yeah back in the 70s so we named a whole
Observatory after her and this is an
observatory that unlike any other in
what important way right so it is coming
online right now at the beginning of
next year that would be 2025 2025 right
what's the observatory going to do so
it's going to observe the entire
southern hemisphere almost every night
so it'll be like pan stars now which is
in the northern hemisphere but it'll
look almost every night to see anything
moving in the sky but it goes almost
five orders of magnitude more sensitive
than panars so five powers of 10 yeah so
we'll be finding many more moving
objects in the solar system we should be
finding many more Interstellar objects
like don't appreciate that if you just
go to a telescope and get images and
bring them home you don't know if
anything is moving on that image right
you know you got to get it over a period
of time they're basically snapshots you
need exactly those kind of data right to
see if something goes bump in the night
that's right so the Ruben telescope
should blow open the whole field yes
absolutely gotcha wow that's pretty cool
so it's pretty exciting is right now
okay are there any other explanations
for this
aliens come on guys just why we trying
to act like we're not going to talk
about the elephant in the room that's
the easiest explanation but it's got to
be right like ever or or ancient
astronauts or something you know
whatever exctly so I feel a little
jealous because if amua mua got kicked
out of some other solar system star
system and we're a star system red
blooded star system we ought to have
some amua muas of our own I've been
kicked out of better Star systems than
this
yeah essentially in the last couple of
years since amua mua we've discovered
these seven objects within the solar
system which are near Earth objects
actually which is what amua mua was
initially uh they thought it was AO it
thought it was a Neo that's right you're
picking up on the uh abbreviation also
so they thought it was a near Earth
object so these are near Earth objects
which are bound to the solar system
unlike a mua mua so they have elliptical
orbits not hyperbolic orbits that's
correct we discovered significant
non-gravitational accelerations on all
seven of these objects which are also
inactive which means that they don't
have Comet like Tails oh okay so
therefore you can't credit the normal
Comet non-gravitational
outgassing that's right but the
accelerations we found on these dark
comets or I mean dark comets is just a m
name I made up hope I think people like
it but because you
not so these objects essentially their
non-gravitational accelerations are too
strong to be explained by the similar to
a mua mua the accelerations you see on
other asteroids so we have
the
hypothesis that's awesome that's awesome
we have the hypothesis that these
objects are like comets and that they
have icy material in them even though
they are close to the Sun and have been
there for a long time but they're for
whatever reason not producing a large
dust coma could you have a layer of
something other than ice that encases
ice within it oh yeah so that prevents a
full up exposure to sun's energy yeah
absolutely and so that was actually an
idea that was an idea that I wrote a
paper on that could have for am mua mua
like the interstellar medium the cosmic
rays basically could have produced an
insulating shell around it that could
have prevented out guessing but that was
before we knew that the
non-gravitational acceleration was there
right so just to repeat what I think you
said you have an object that's icy has
volatile ices but cosmic rays basically
turn the outermost layer of that ice
into a an insulating crust yeah right
that's right because the water molecule
gets broken yes and now it's no longer
frozen water it's just hydrogen and
oxygen what happens to the oxygen
essentially well it depends where it is
like like in the idea that Jenny bergner
and I had hydrogen and oxygen would be
entrapped within the ice separately from
each other yes separately from each
other but this is more like you can
create a kind of tar like material on
the it's kind of like asphal almost that
but that's not what happened so then oh
where you get your carbon oh it would
have been there originally okay or and
you get that in the CO2 or the co carbon
is not rare in the universe this is cool
so but then how's it re-released then
because you well so you insulated it but
then the one thing is I was going to say
though is that that certainly is not
what happened to a mua mua cuz I wrote
that it took like it was discovered in
October and then it was May when the
acceleration was published so I wrote a
paper before the acceleration was
published that explained it like that
and that's I was certainly wrong about
that it's just that what I was saying
was that uh that how many branches
of say I was wrong yeah well listen
that's what that's what makes science so
great it's like we're right today we're
not tomorrow we're right tomorrow about
what we weren't today right what did you
just
say it sounded good I no but just to be
clear we don't always say we're wrong
about things that have been objectively
shown to be true right when I say oh E
equals act actually equals MC cubed we
didn't who who knew noal MC squ we're
good there right it's so if you're in
mid hypothesis and it's being tested
that can come and go and if you're first
out of the box with an idea right that's
highly susceptible to later data that
shows up but nothing better than you
yourself correct making that adjustment
or correction then somebody else coming
along and going yeah guess what man you
you're a dumbass C this is the way it
works an official science term that's
super cool man well I guess one thing is
that these non-gravitational
acceleration like you were asking why
hadn't we seen them before in the solar
system so they're very difficult to
detect and so with the dark comets it's
been most of them have been known about
there's one that I've been known about
for more than 20 years it's just people
have been monitoring it for 20 plus
years trying to get the POS trying to
measure the position and we finally
noticed so David far noia at NASA JPL
basically has to figure out the
trajectories of all the bodies in the
solar system and included in the fits
for those non-gravitational acceleration
so there's kind of people all over the
world who are monitoring objects that we
know of and seeing if any of them could
be potentially so you use the term the
fit for it what you mean I think is if
it's pure gravitational there's a
formula where you can forever predict
the future trajectory but if you're not
fitting the future trajectory you have
to fit it some other way mathematically
right and so you add these other terms
that you think you understand yeah and
you also I mean he does it numer like
numerically just with a supercomputer
but you basically try all different
types of accelerations numerically means
you can't do it analytically right every
step has to have a computation that
gives you a a position in the trajectory
whereas if it's analytic you can just
run the formula and it'll get you the
whole way yeah it's they both effective
but one of them admits that we don't
fully know the physics of what going on
so we have to fit the model yeah fit a
model to it yeah so so with the hydrogen
and oxygen and comets and all of this
does this affect anybody's sense of
where the water on Earth came from right
yeah so this is also kind of based on
this student who's been working with me
who's just starting just started this
last year you just got out of graduate
school and you got students already good
for you man I love it man so that's
Aster Taylor who had a paper published
that discussed the possibility that the
water the dark comets could have brought
water to the Earth more so than other
comets right
well there's so people used to think
that comets delivered water to the Earth
and we still don't know where the
Earth's oceans came from and part of the
reason that we're now not sure if comets
delivered the water is because we've
have spacecraft measure spacecraft
measurements of water in comets like the
rosette emission went to 67p and some of
the Isotopes which is some of the things
about the water in that Comet did not
match that that we've measured in the O
in the earth's oceans this would be dyum
I guess right yes so that's one of them
so the duum to hydrogen ratio so
hydrogen is just one proton in the
nucleus and the protons Define what we
label the element to be so now you
throwing a neutron okay it's still
hydrogen but now it's like a little
heavier right so you can't just it's got
to be hydrogen something something you
got to be got to need do something right
so we call dyum how stable is dyum well
it's not that it's stable it's just the
important thing is that the amount of
dyum compared to hydrogen isn't going to
change from processing and it depends
very critically at the temperature of
formation change chemically right so if
the comet doesn't match that in the
oceans you can't credit the comet for
delivering that's correct so we don't
know for sure and Aster was very careful
to say this in the press releases and
news articles about their paper but we
can't say for sure that dark comets
could have contributed contributed water
to the Earth but they are a new entirely
new population of small bodies that are
in the a new source potential Source
they're in the vicinity of the earth and
they potentially have vitals so we would
need follow-up observations to figure
out if they match up but the Hayabusa 2
mission the jaxa space agency Mission
jaxa Japanese Exploration Agency yeah
it's basically Japanese NASA but their H
Mission what's jackon it's just not NASA
but Jackson I'm sorry that just sounds
very
racist NASA came first dude this is true
America okay listen I don't have a
problem with it their Hayabusa 2 mission
in the extended Mission it just so
happens is going to a dark Comet cool so
in 2031 we're going to have that'll blow
it open it might well it's at least
going to Rond with it but we'll have
enough sensitivity to measure things
like outgassing or dust if it's there so
at the very least the worst case
scenario we're going to have an answer
to all this in 2031 now literally comets
are dark even when you they don't
satisfy your definition right right we
think of them these white things moving
through space but their material is very
dirty on a level that how reflective is
a comet well it's difficult to say
because you don't always see most of the
time you don't even detect the nucleus
or the rocky part of the Comet you just
see the tail but Asteroids for example
like asteroids typically have albo is
the word we use in science but that's
how reflective they are so albo is
between something like 0.04 to 0.1 which
is like 10ish per that's black yes
that's black okay yeah albo between zero
and one if it's one it's like a mirror
right if I remember uh the Moon is about
7% albino okay and what is Pluto so
there are parts of Pluto like there's a
glacier of nitrogen or nitrogen ice
actually and that has an albo upwards of
like 90% oh wow so it's very reflective
it be a bright spot if you look at it oh
you know I read an article once that was
talking about another reason why Pluto
is in a planet is because it reflects so
much that it makes it look much bigger
than it actually is well initially I
think that would have thrown off our
measurements right but now we we we got
up in close in person yeah well now yeah
we've been there now we've been there
now they done that so what's in the
future of what you you're up to so the
Reuben Observatory is the most exciting
thing but it should be finding you know
upwards of tens per year Interstellar
objects yeah but this would be
serendipitous you can't say go look at
this object or look here and discover an
object you're waiting for the data to
come you through you or to you but also
Ruben should better characterize the
orbits of all of the known small bodies
in the solar system and find a bunch of
much smaller ones so given that we have
kind of just hit the tip of the iceberg
in terms of finding these dark comets I
would bet that we're going to find many
many more dark comets and subtle
non-gravitational
accelerations right so that could kind
of revolutionize how we think of even
comets and asteroids right cool wow look
at you cool what's especially delightful
to learn is that you are entering a
field right when an important telescope
that feeds that field will be coming
online yes and yeah you don't to have so
much data yeah oh yeah in fact tell them
how much data is coming off of Ruben
telescope yeah it's a huge amount it's
like can you be quantitative
please tell Chuck how much
huge I just don't want to say it wrong
oh yes it's not only knowing what you
don't know it's knowing if you don't
think you know something you don't so
last I checked it was 20 terabytes of
data a day that's crazy a day that's a
lot yeah and uh you're right though it's
huge
yeah huge huge yeah I mean a big worry
is the inar objects I mean mu mua was
actually moving pretty slow so if
they're moving much faster we might not
even link them so we have to figure out
computer algorithms so that in that data
we could find fast moving interstar
objects and potentially L them because
they've gone too far from one image to
the next yes exact so that you our our
biases prevent us from connecting the
dots literally your computational
algorithm to connect algorithm is not
doesn't find it and another thing is you
asked about you can't discover something
your algorithm doesn't even look to look
for right and then these dark comets I
mean UA mua revealed that it had a
non-gravitational acceleration but we
weren't looking for strong accelerations
on things that had no cometary tail so
if something has a way stronger
non-gravitational acceleration than even
a mua mua we would never link it up so
we have to basically make and an
exciting thing right with these
intercell objects they come and leave
and they're never coming back so to
follow them up you have to find them in
real time so it's there's a huge amount
of effort right now that we're working
on trying to make sure that we do find
anything exciting so that we can get the
followup that makes sense cuz if you
miss it you missed it yes exactly perod
it's gone well I like the idea of an
entire new class of object in the solar
system that had eluded our algorithms
and our telescopes that's cuz they're
aliens so Daryl this has been delightful
and enlightening and thanks for catching
me up thanks for having super cool stuff
thank you let me see if I can wrap this
up all right in a bow what intrigues me
most about science in general especially
in my field
is we recognize we admit we confess that
all we know of the universe is that
which our methods tools tactics and
telescopes reveal to us but at no time
should we ever think this is all there
is we once thought that when all we had
was our five
senses no one could imagine that
anything would could or should exist
outside of your five senses until the
microscope the telescope both invented
around the same time broadened our sense
and understanding of what actually
exists in the universe that continues to
this day and every new bit of Technology
every creative
thought associated with those new
technologies
brings new objects new phenomena into
the portfolio of what makes this
universe
and all of that contributes to the
Majesty of not only what the universe is
but what the universe will become to us
as we continue to
explore and that is a cosmic perspective
Daryl be good man thank you and we look
forward to many fruitful discoveries
when you get some good data from Ruben
you come back and we talk about it all
right Neil degrass Tyson you're a
personal astrophysicist keep looking up
[Music]